Mostly Mechanical Mods presents Modding for Dummies: A Brief Introduction.

Let’s make one thing clear right off the bat: this video will not teach you anything, but before I actually put out proper tutorials, I thought it would be helpful to explain what those tutorials would cover, and what kind of content you can expect from this series going forward.

My name is Stik’, and I have been playing paradox games for some years now, starting with CK2, before moving on to loads of EU IV, a little bit of HoI IV, heaps of Stellaris, my fair share of Imperator:Rome, and finally Crusader Kings 3, which I played extensively for 6 months, before thinking: well, there’s a pandemic going on, my day job is suspended for a while, I have a lot of free time on my hands, and I have ideas about the game that I think are pretty cool. How about I try to mod them in myself? Well I did, and I now have 6 released mods on Steam, which I’ll link in the description if you want to check them out. So the good news is, even if you’re a total newb like I was, if you put in the time, you’ll make it eventually.

I’ve been modding for 9 months now, but prior to that, I had no experience whatsoever as a developer. And the problem I ran into when looking for information on how to get started is that a lot of the available material is kind of self-referential, so you’ve got loads of terms thrown at you, that you can’t make head or tails of, and any explanation of a concept draws upon a dozen more concepts that you don’t know either, and those circle back to that first concept you were trying to understand in the first place.

So I’m going about this tutorial series by trying to remember what it was like starting fresh 9 months ago, hence the name Modding for Dummies, because I certainly felt like one at the time – and still often do to be honest. And while there are already modding tutorials out there, they are usually focused on game features: how to create a religion for example, or how to create a decision, and what steps to follow in order to do the same. Those tutorials are great, but I am hoping to help on a more fundamental level by explaining what things are, and how they work, in the simplest way I know how.

The aim is to make short, focused videos, about tools that will be useful to hone your craft, about resources you’re likely to use along the way, about good practices on how to format your script for example, and about base concepts that could baffle you just as they baffled me: what’s a scope? what’s a trigger? What’s a scripted_trigger? What’s a scripted_effect? What’s an iterator – and so on and so forth.

So I hope you’re looking forward to this – I know I am ! This was Mostly Mechanical Mods’ Modding for Dummies, thank you for watching, and I will see you in the next video.
